MIT CADR Chaosnet						-*- org -*-

* What is this?

Chaosnet was an early (pre-ethernet) computer network developed at
MIT.  It was an early "common bus" packet network, i.e. all the
machines shared a single "wire" and sent packets back and forth.

Chaosnet was used to connect many machines at MIT, most notably the
PDP-10's running ITS and the lisp machines.

This code simulates a Chaosnet network on a single machine.  There is
a central server which clients connect to using unix sockets.  The
server relays packets back and forth between the clients.

The CADR simulator (usim) can be a client and uses this code to talk
to the FILE server ("FILE" is the file serving protocol used on
chaosnet).

This code was initially written by Brad Parker <brad@heeltoe.com>


* Quick Start

  - Run chaosd in one window.
  - Run usim in another
  - Wait for the lispm to ask you for the date & time, and type:

    	(si:set-sys-host "server" ':unix 404)


* Building

UNIX-like systems:

  Just run "make".

Everything else:

  Unsupported.


* Running

The simple case is to run "chaosd" in a directory which has "server"
and "FILE" in it.  "chaosd" will exec. "server" in the background and
"server" will exec. "FILE" when a connection is made.  So just type
"./chaosd" in the source directory.

The servers are designed to run in the background and can be made to
do so with command line argument.  They have not tested fully, however
and it could easily be the case that the the exec. will fail because
the programs can not be found.

Once "chaosd" is running you can start up "usim" and it will connect.  You
can watch the packet flow by running "listen".

"usim" will automatically reconnect to the server if the server is
killed or dies.  In theory you can start "usim" first.


* What's the point?

If you run chaosd and then usim, you can get the CADR to talk to the
file server and read files from your host.

Once CADR is running type this,

	(si:set-sys-host "server" ':unix 404 "//tmp")

Note this command will take a little while to complete.

Then get into Zmacs with F2-e and type C-x C-f (Find file).  Then then
type "server:/path/to/a/text/file".  The file will appear in the Emacs
buffer.  Viola.  It's not fast but it works.

At this point the system is stable enough that it can recompile the
entire source tree.


* Chaosnet addressing

In octal

  0401	usim
  0404	server

The code currently assumes a single usim running with chaos address
(octal) 401.  The server runs at address (octal) 404.


* What programs are here?

chaosd - router daemon
server - chaosnet server
FILE   - port of FILE server
MINI   - server used when creating new load bands
listen - packet dumper
client - simple test client
time   - another simple test client


* Recent Changes

07/11/06 - Fixed FILE server to force everything to lower case (still
             a bug in close - don't open multiple files).
           Some macos fixes, doesn't work yet in big endian.
	   Works well enough to support (si:recompile-world).

12/13/05 - Original release.
